**Problem Statement Title:**<br>
Freelancing Platform
<br><br>

**Problem Statement in Detail:**<br>
Project Concept : Freelancing Opportunities for India There is a significant gap in connecting freelancers and gig workers with short-term and project-based job opportunities. An platform like upwork is needed to seamlessly connect freelancers with employers and provide tools for managing freelance projects. Requirements: 1. Freelance Job Marketplace: • Develop a marketplace where freelancers can find short-term jobs, gig work, and project-based opportunities. • Allow employers to post projects, specify requirements, and invite freelancers to apply. 2. Freelancer Profile and Portfolio Management: • Enable freelancers to create detailed profiles showcasing their skills, experiences, and portfolio of past work. • Integrate a rating and review system for feedback on completed projects. 3. Extensive Search & Analytics • Enable Employers/Freelancers to do extensive search in the available data / generated data. • Generation of AI enabled insights into the Data and providing newer ways of information availability for job seekers / employers to engage. • AI based Recommendation Systems for seeking opportunities 4.Escrow Account Creation • Create provisions for an escrow account that can be used to hold the money until the job is fully delivered. • Integrate secure payment gateways to facilitate smooth financial transactions between employers and freelancers. Expected Outcome: The platform will connect freelancers with a wide range of job opportunities and provide them with tools to manage projects efficiently, leading to better job satisfaction and increased income opportunities. NOTE : This is an innovation opportunity and students are encouraged to think out of the box to develop solutions which can be presented in newer ways + which can address the needs in out of the box ways for a certain industry OR makes the platform generic. Above description serves as a guide to specify essential needs that can be satisfied for the developed solution and is not limited only to the scope described

**Hackathon where it was listed :** Smart India Hackathon 2024 <br>

**SIH Code:** 1629