**Problem Statement Title:**<br>
Creating an application to identify the presence of government issued personally identifiable information (PII) embedded in documents and data, inadvertently or otherwise.<br><br>

**Problem Statement in Detail:**<br>
In today’s digital age, a wide variety of services and processes take place online. Users of these digital facilities are required to upload government-issued containing documents or provide data for successfully availing the services. However, the uploaded documents or data which are required to facilitate these digital services and processes contain personally identifiable information (PII), i.e. any data that can be used to identify an individual uniquely. These documents can be like Aadhaar card, PAN, Credit Card, Driving License etc and can include data like names, address, phone number, email address, and financial information, among others of the user. The handling of PII is crucial as its exposure can lead to privacy breaches, identity theft, and financial fraud among other cyber related issues.The above problem statement envisages that an application be developed to identify whether PII, in the form of government-issued documents such as Aadhaar, Driving license, MHA-issued ID Cards, etc. is embedded in the uploaded document or provided data. Notable, the PII may be included inadvertently as well. PII, by its nature, is sensitive data, and its exposure must be protected against in order to safeguard users’ privacy. Entities and organizations handling documents or data containing users’ PII must be mindful of the complex challenges that arise with it – they have to balance data storage, encryption, access controls, data retention policies, data management processes with users’ knowledge and consent, notification of breaches by users, grievance redressal, etc. Such an application will aid in alerting individual users to verify whether it is necessary to upload or provide PII-containing document. Simultaneously, it will allow the personal data processing entity to check whether such PII document or data is required, and in case not necessary, help in removing, redacting or masking the PII document or data from the uploaded or provided document or alerting the individual user regarding the same. This application would be useful for the purposes of data protection compliance, risk mitigation, enhanced security, improved data quality, operational efficiency, and legal and regulatory compliance.A software application or library package to detect and alert users when there is personally identifiable information (PII) related to identified government-issued identification documents (Aadhaar card, PAN, Driving License to start with) embedded in the uploaded documents or providing data, while uploading or reviewing. In addition, the software application may be placed in public domain and shall allow the receiver of the document in removing, redacting or masking the PII from the document and data, if required.

**Features Listed**
<ol> 
    <li>PII Detection in Documents and Data</li> 
    <li>User Alerts for PII Presence</li> 
    <li>PII Redaction or Masking Tools</li> 
    <li>Data Protection Compliance Assistance</li> 
</ol>

**Hackathon where it was listed :** Smart India Hackathon 2024 <br>

**SIH Code:** 1668